---
layout: chatgpt-devchat
title: "ChatGPT Dev Chat"
tags: demos software-engineering ai
category: ai
---
OpenAI's web interface for ChatGPT is a general purpose UI suitable for using
ChatGPT as a chatbot. When using ChatGPT for software development however, I
routinely find myself wishing that the chat UI had additional features. This
demo provides a UI designed specifically for more complex tasks like planning
new software features or debugging issues in code.

## Overview
This is a proof of concept demo for an idea I've been wanting to explore for a
bit now. I often use ChatGPT for planning out new projects that I want to
experiment with. These projects often use new frameworks or libraries and are
my way of learning about new approaches or features. Most of these projects
don't usually see the light of day, but they remain a great way for me to
explore different coding styles or to mess around with concepts to assess their
viability.

Since these projects are often small projects that make use of new code I've
never used before, I often find myself using ChatGPT to figure out what I may
want to use for the project or to plan out what sort of features I may want to
aim for. More often than not, this results in a ChatGPT thread that has several
points at which I need to decide on one specific direction to explore out of
multiple possibilities.

This demo implements a UI I've personally found myself wanting as it makes it
simple for me to revisit elements mentioned by ChatGPT without consuming
valuable context window tokens. With ChatGPT's standard web interface, if I
wanted to explore topics A, B, C, and D, I'd end up with a thread that goes
A -> B -> C -> D. But with this UI, I can branch a conversation after any
response from GPT. Instead of having a chain of four topics, I can have a
conversation consisting of multiple threads, e.g. A -> B, A -> C, and A -> D.
By branching a conversation instead of continuing it, more of the relevant parts
of the conversation can be kept in the context window.

While I primarily intend to use this interface for planning projects, I
anticipate it will also be useful for other tasks such as debugging. I also
have several other ideas for how ChatGPT's interface can be improved for
software development workflows, though I don't expect those to be implemented
as demos on this blog. This entire interface is implemented using pure
TypeScript with no libraries other than
[strongly-typed-events](https://www.npmjs.com/package/strongly-typed-events),
and I very much want to make use of existing libraries/frameworks when working
on anything bigger. As a result, I do not plan to make the improvements I have
in mind to this interface.

## Privacy Policy
This chat interface stores all its data in your browser's local storage.  Your
data is never sent to any external services other than OpenAI's GPT API
endpoints. OpenAI's privacy policy for the GPT API can be found under the
[API > Data Privacy](https://openai.com/enterprise-privacy) section on OpenAI's
site.

## API Key
An OpenAI API key with funds available is required to use this interface. Please
visit [https://platform.openai.com/](https://platform.openai.com/) to set up an
API key.

You are responsible for ensuring the security of your API key. The API key will
only ever be sent by this interface to OpenAI's GPT API endpoints and may be
optionally stored in your browser via local storage. The code for this interface
can be found on this site's
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/zkWildfire/whattf.how) under the
[`assets/scripts/ChatGptDevChat` folder](https://github.com/zkWildfire/whattf.how/tree/master/assets/scripts/ChatGptDevChat).

If you would like to test the devchat out using a lorem ipsum generator in
place of calls to the GPT API, use a dummy API key and select the "Lorem Ipsum"
LLM. Example dummy API key:  
```
sk-000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
```

> The "copy to clipboard" button isn't working due to an issue with the Jekyll
> theme I'm using and custom layouts. This will be fixed soon.
{: .prompt-warning }
