---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

If you've ever felt drawn to a particular subject, then you know exactly how I
felt about programming when I first started. The earliest memory I have of
programming was coming across a book at a book sale that was a tutorial on how
to program in BASIC. At the time, I was young enough to not have my own PC, but
I still distinctly remember being interested in the book and wanting to learn
more about programming.

Though I had displayed early interest in the field, it wasn't until my freshman
year that I began teaching myself how to write code. I started out learning how
to code in C++, despite reading about how the language was one of the hardest
to learn as your first language. In hindsight, the warnings were definitely
true! But at the same time, the fact that I learned C++ first meant that I
obtained a solid foundation in computer science fundamentals due to how low
level of a language C++ is. In later years, that strong foundation was
invaluable to me as it made it extremely easy for me to pick up new programming
languages since I could understand at a low level what each language was doing.

I've since become a professional programmer with over a decade of experience
coding. I graduated from UW Seattle's Computer Science program and subsequently
began working full time at Nvidia as a software engineer. During my time at UW
Seattle, I interned twice with Nvidia and then began full time at Nvidia in
January 2021. I've been employed with Nvidia ever since then.

This site is my personal blog, where I plan to share various thoughts about
software engineering, research projects for various topics of interest, and
some cool demos too! You'll be able to find the source code for this site,
including the scripts for demos, on the public GitHub
[repo](https://github.com/zkWildfire/whattf.how) for this site. For demos and
projects that don't run directly in browser, you'll be able to find the source
code in the GitHub [repo](https://github.com/zkWildfire/wizard.dev) for my
personal site, [wizard.dev](https://www.wizard.dev).

It's my hope that this site will prove useful to other developers, especially
newer developers. Having started out as an entirely self taught programmer, I
found developer blogs to be an invaluable resource and learned about many
different topics from such sites.

> Disclaimer: I am currently employed by Nvidia as a software engineer. However,
> this blog is not affiliated with Nvidia in any way. All opinions expressed on
> this blog are my own and do not reflect the opinions of Nvidia.
